
This is a list of software we'll be using in this module. These are all 
available on the lab machines and in the virutalbox image but you can download
and install these on your own computers as well.

## MySQL server

In this module, we'll be doing the examples, exercises, and coursework using
MySQL. The lab machines and virtualbox image have this set up already for you.
However, if you want to install it on your own machine you can follow the
[installation guide](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/installing.html)
for your operating system.

## Visual Studio Code

[Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) is a text editor which you
can use for programming/writing/whatever! There are many text editors around
and the best advice I have is to pick one and learn it well. You will use it
everywhere. Another piece of advice is don't use the notepad program that comes
on windows. It's missing features like auto-indentation and syntax highlighting
that better text editors have. IDEs like IntelliJ are another option for
programming but I find that they hide much of the process of programming. This
can make it difficult to understand what's going wrong when something
inevitably does. Visual Studio Code can be extended through plugins which makes
it quite powerful. It's a good place to start with text editors in that
respect.

VSCode on the image has the [Live
share](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/services/live-share/) extension so
*hopefully* we can do pair programming during labs to diagnose problems. It
should also have the [MySQL](https://github.com/cweijan/vscode-mysql) extension
so you can browse tables and interactively run SQL commands.

## Git

[Git](https://git-scm.com/) is version control software. It can keep track of
changes you make to files and allow you to go back to any previous version. You
can also send your changes to other computers as backup or to allow you to work
on more than one machine. I guarantee this will become a lifesaver one day. You
will make a bunch of changes to your code, not realize you broke something, and
not remember what changed. Version control software can help you find these
places. I would use it for all your assignments and labs.

