
This is a VirtualBox disk image which is designed to get you up and running
quickly with MySQL and a development environment. This is an alternative to
the lab machines on campus in case you don't want to install software on your
own computer.

It's running Linux with KDE. If you want to make any changes you can either
submit a pull request to the
[repository](https://github.com/gabysbrain/CSCM59/) or email me.

## Key software

### MySQL server

In this module, we'll be doing the exercises using MySQL. To access the server
you need the following login information:

* username: root
* password: *leave blank*
* host: localhost

### Visual Studio Code

[Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) is a text editor which you
can use for programming/writing/whatever! There are many text editors around
and the best advice I have is to pick one and learn it well. You will use it
everywhere. Another piece of advice is don't use the notepad program that comes
on windows. It's missing features like auto-indentation and syntax highlighting
that better text editors have. IDEs like IntelliJ are another option for
programming but I find that they hide much of the process of programming. This
can make it difficult to understand what's going wrong when something
inevitably does. Visual Studio Code can be extended through plugins which makes
it quite powerful. It's a good place to start with text editors in that
respect.

VSCode on the image has the [Live
share](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/services/live-share/) extension so
*hopefully* we can do pair programming during labs to diagnose problems. It
should also have the [MySQL](https://github.com/cweijan/vscode-mysql) extension
so you can browse tables and interactively run SQL commands.

### Git

[Git](https://git-scm.com/) is version control software. It can keep track of
changes you make to files and allow you to go back to any previous version. You
can also send your changes to other computers as backup or to allow you to work
on more than one machine. I guarantee this will become a lifesaver one day. You
will make a bunch of changes to your code, not realize you broke something, and
not remember what changed. Version control software can help you find these
places. I would use it for all your assignments and labs.

